Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a computer language programmers
use to develop software programs, scripts, or other sets of
instructions for computers to execute.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK contains a private Java Virtual Machine (JVM) and a few other
resources such as an interpreter/loader (Java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar),
a documentation generator (Javadoc) etc. to complete the development of a Java Application.
All the components are explained below:

Java: Java is a high-level, class-based, object-oriented programming language that is designed
to have as few implementation dependencies as possible.

Javac: javac is the primary Java compiler included in the Java Development Kit from Oracle Corporation.

Jar: A JAR file is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files and
associated metadata and resources into one file for distribution. JAR files are archive files that
include a Java-specific manifest file. They are built on the ZIP format and typically have a .jar file
extension.

Javadoc: Javadoc is a documentation generator for the Java language, it is used for generating API
documentation in HTML format from Java source code.



What is IDE?
A. An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software suite that consolidates basic
tools required to write and test software. Such as: NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ, and Visual Studio etc.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse. NetBeans. Oracle JDeveloper



Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:
1. Editing the program: First, we will hae to start with typing the program in a text-editor (ex: notepad,
notepad++, wordpad, textedit etc). After completing editing of the program, we have to save the file.
While saving the file we should remember that the file must be saved with .java extension.

2. Compiling the source code: Second step is compilation. The name of the Java compiler is javac.
The input to the compiler is Java source code which is available in Sample.java. The output of the
compiler is machine independent or platform independent code which is known as bytecode. The file
which is generated after compilation is .class file.

3. Executing the byte code: Last step is execution. The bytecode generated by the compiler will be
executed by Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Input to the JVM is bytecode and output is machine code
(0’s and 1’s) which will be executed by the CPU of the local machine.


what is class?
A. Class is a template used to create objects and to define object data types and methods.

What is object?
A. A Java object is a member (also called an instance) of a Java class. Each object has an identity,
a behavior and a state.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application.
Application entry points are used to control users' access to different versions of an application
that is deployed on a platform.

Why main is static?
A. The main() method is static so that JVM can invoke it without instantiating the class.
This also saves the unnecessary wastage of memory which would have been used by the object declared
only for calling the main() method by the JVM.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. The Object class, which is stored in the java. lang package, is the ultimate superclass of all Java
classes (except for Object).

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that Path is set for java tools in java programs
like java and javac, which are used to compile your code. Whereas CLASSPATH is used by System or
Application class loader to locate and load compile Java bytecodes stored in the . class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. The main difference between an interface and an abstract class is that an interface cannot have
state, whereas the abstract class can have state with instance variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No, we cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class
(interface is not even considered as a class). We can implement a subclass of abstract
class which, of course, must not be abstract.

what is Access Specifier?
A.Access specifiers define the visibility of the class. If no keyword is mentioned then that is
default access modifier.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOps in java is to improve code readability and reusability by defining a Java program
efficiently. The main principles of object-oriented programming are abstraction, encapsulation,
inheritance, and polymorphism.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.Java compiler imports java. lang package internally by default. It provides the fundamental
classes that are necessary to design a basic Java program. The important classes are Object,
which is the root of the class hierarchy, and Class, instances of which represent classes at run time.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. PIs are mechanisms that enable two software components to communicate with each other using a set of
definitions and protocols.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. Java doesn't support multiple inheritances in classes because it can lead to diamond problem
and rather than providing some complex way to solve it, there are better ways through which we can achieve the same result as multiple inheritances

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different
parameters. Overriding occurs when two methods have the same method name and parameters. One of the
methods is in the parent class, and the other is in the child class.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions. Put the code we want to run in
the try block, and any Java exceptions that the code throws are caught by one or more catch blocks.
This method will catch any type of Java exceptions that get thrown. This is the simplest mechanism
for handling exceptions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables,
 methods, blocks and nested classes. It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or
 method of a given class. Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same
 for every instance of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. The final keyword is a non-access modifier used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes
them non-changeable (impossible to inherit or override).

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final is a keyword and is used as access modifier in Java. Finally is a block in Java used for
Exception Handling. Finalize is a method in Java used for Garbage Collection. Application.

What is a constructor ?
A.A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor is
called when an object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. A class can have multiple constructors that assign the fields in different ways. Sometimes it's
beneficial to specify every aspect of an object's data by assigning parameters to the fields,
 but other times it might be appropriate to define only one or a few.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument
constructor, called the default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A.The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.The super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects. It is used to call superclass methods,
 and to access the superclass constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
A.Java Virtual Machine, or JVM, loads, verifies and executes Java bytecode. It is known as the
interpreter or the core of Java programming language because it executes Java programming.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. JVM is undoubtedly platform-independent. Similar to how it varies depending on the surroundings.
For instance, MAC and Linux have a different JVM than Windows. It supports portability as one of its
key features since its code's portable bytecode makes it platform-independent.

What version of java are you using?
A. java 18

What is JAR stand for ?
A. JAR stands for Java ARchive. It's a file format based on the popular ZIP file format and is used
for aggregating many files into one.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.The JVM is an abbreviation for Java Virtual Machine. The JDK (Java Development Kit) is a
software development kit that develops applications in Java.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JRE is the implementation of JVM. It provides a platform to execute java programs. JRE consists
of JVM, Java binaries, and other classes to execute any program successfully. JRE doesn't contain
any development tools such as Java compiler, debugger, JShell, etc.

What is compile time and run time?
A.Compile time is the period when the programming code (such as C#, Java, C, Python) is converted
to the machine code (i.e. binary code). Runtime is the period of time when a program is running and generally occurs after compile time.

What is heap?
A.The Java heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running
on the JVM. When the JVM is started, heap memory is created and any objects in the heap can be shared
between threads as long as the application is running.

How java manage it's memory?
A.In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects,
called Memory management. Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory
management system called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes. StringBuffer
 is thread-safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not.

What is Singleton class?
A.Singleton is a design pattern that ensures that a class can only have one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization in Java allows us to convert an Object to stream that we can send over the
network or save it as file or store in DB for later usage. Deserialization is the process of
converting Object stream to actual Java Object to be used in our program.

when to use transient variable in java?
A.Transient in Java is used to indicate that a field should not be part of the serialization process.
 The modifier Transient can be applied to member variables of a class to turn off serialization on
 these member variables.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.The while loop in java executes one or more statements after testing the loop continuation
 condition at the start of each iteration. The do-while loop, however, tests the loop continuation
 condition after the first iteration has completed.

What is Enum?
A.An enum type is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants.

What is Iterator?
A.An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.Int is a primitive data type and takes 32 bits(4 bytes) to store. On other hand Integer is an
object which takes 128 bits (16 bytes) to store its int value.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency,
caching, and class loading.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.Constructor chaining refers to the ability to call a constructor inside another constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.The only difference between serial and parallel garbage collector is that serial garbage
collector uses a single thread for garbage collection process while the parallel garbage collector
uses multiple threads for the garbage collection. Parallel GC can use multiple CPUs to speed up the
application throughput.

What is JIT stands for?
A.The Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler is a component of the Java Runtime Environment that
improves the performance of Java applications at run time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up
and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full,
garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared,
thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No, not at all. In languages without garbage collection, the programmer (or a library he uses)
is responsible for making requests for memory and for returning the allocated memory for "recycling".
there are no guarantees that the memory would be available when it is requested.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.Java Heap Space is used throughout the application, but Stack is only used for the method — or
methods — currently running. The Heap Space contains all objects are created, but Stack contains
any reference to those objects. Objects stored in the Heap can be accessed throughout the application.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program
to examine or "introspect" upon itself, and manipulate internal properties of the program.

what is multithreading in java?
A.Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously for
maximum utilization of the CPU. A thread in Java is a lightweight process requiring fewer resources to create and share the process resources.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any
shared resource.

What is Framework?
A.Java frameworks are bodies of reusable pre-written code acting as templates that developers can
use to create applications by filling in custom code as needed. Frameworks are created to be used over
and over so that developers can program applications without the manual overhead of creating everything
from scratch.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. Selenium, testNG, jUnit ets

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.JUnit is a framework that is open-source and may be used to write and trigger tests. TestNG is a
 Java-based framework that provides an improved way to run tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.mongo-java-driver, mysql-connector-java, jUnit

what is dependency injection in java?
A.Dependency Injection in Java is a way to achieve Inversion of control (IoC) in our application
by moving objects binding from compile time to runtime.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve
binding.









